---
layout: default
title: The Zeller Lab
categories:
 - home
homepage: true
---
The Zeller Lab is a human microbiome research group aimed at gaining a better fundamental understanding of the human microbiome and exploring the clinical relevance of its complex interactions with the host. The group is led by [Georg Zeller](./team/zeller-georg) and is based at the [Leiden University Medical Center](https://www.lumc.nl/) in Leiden, Netherlands. The lab belongs to the Leiden University Center for Infectious Diseases (LUCID) and is located in the LUMC main building, Albinusdreef 2, 2333 ZA Leiden.

The Zeller Lab combines sequencing and imaging approaches with computational and statistical analysis techniques to study the composition, function and spatial organisation of microbial communities colonising the human body. This work aims to better understand the human microbiome as an important determinant of human health and disease. The lab is striving for a more quantitative understanding of how host factors shape the microbiome (e.g. diet or medication), how microbes contribute to disease processes (e.g. cancer formation) and how we can harness microbiome modulation to restore human health or improve medical treatments.

To achieve these goals, we work in an interdisciplinary approach, collaborating with microbiologists, data scientists and clinicians. We value diversity and inclusivity in an international team combining researchers with diverse educational backgrounds. We embrace open science principles and adopt best practices to promote reproducible (computational) research. If you would like to learn more or are interested in working with us, please [contact us](./contact.html).

Leiden is a vibrant, multicultural city with the [Leiden Bio Science Park](https://leidenbiosciencepark.nl/) being one of Europe’s largest and most dynamic research environments hosting both excellent academic institutes and biomedical companies. Other cultural and scientific hubs, such as Den Haag, Amsterdam, Delft, Rotterdam and Utrecht are very close by, making Leiden an ideal place for working and living.
